## on Sunday, Mar 27 2022, I learned...
#### a heck lot about #obsidian!!!
- lol i basically set all of this vault (plus another private one) up today so yeah
- watched [Nick Milo](nick-milo.md)'s [Obsidian for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL3NaIVgSlAVLHty1-NuvPa9V0b0UwbzBd) Youtube series
- tried to get used to some [obsidian-shortcuts](obsidian-shortcuts.md)
- feeling pretty amped about playing around with obsidian and i can't wait to see what it's capable of! i mean heck i haven't even installed any community plugins yet! 
- particularly interested in looking more into what "linking your thinking" is all about
#### git refresher
- (tl;dr i made a [git-review](git-review.md) note sheet)
- i decided to try setting up #git in my obsidian vaults! tbh i can't remember whether this is something that occurred to me on my own or if i saw somebody else talking about it recently, but anyway, i figured that having version control on my obsidian vaults would be *awesome.* because:
	1. i was thinking about how valuable it is to me to keep a record of the changes i make to my notes and thoughts! i realized that i think i actually tend to get so fussed over maintaining the Historical Accuracy of my notes and journals (ie, as a representation of the way i felt at the moment when i first wrote it) that i get very hesitant to edit my prior writing, even when i'm re-reading it and having new ideas about it that i know could be worth adding in. so i'm really, really hoping that using version control--having the peace of mind that the past iterations of my notes will *always be there*, timestamped and unchanging, to reference again whenever i want--will finally give me the sense of *freedom* that i can keep updating and iterating on my notes without having to fear that something is *lost* in the process.
		- (actually, this idea came from when i was talking to someone yeterday about their Notion setup and weighing the pros and cons of synced blocks vs traditional copy-and-pasting vs just linking to a prior writing)
	2. more on this below, but i want to work with my notes on multiple devices, and i was pretty anxious about the possibility of data getting lost somewhere in the syncing process. but if i pair an automatic/continuous sync tool (i'm using syncthing, to be specific) together with git, then it covers way more bases! i worry that it's easy for automated backups or syncs to propogate accidental changes, but if i'm only making git commits when i've finished a writing session and tidied up my open files, i can have a lot more confidence that my latest commit always represents a "stable" state for my vault, one that i can roll back to if something really goes wrong.
	3. it occurred to me later in the setup process, another unexpected benefit of using git would be, it has great tools built right in for dealing with the kind of version conflicts that can arise from sync problems! if i notice that two of my devices are out of sync with each other but they both contain some new material that i want to keep, then even aside from just taking advantage of the diff tools, i can just turn one of them into a new branch and take my time merging it in later! (back when i used to use Evernote for everything, this kind of "conflicting change" situation was always an absolute NIGHTMARE to me, so it's *really* blowing my mind to think about how much more manageable it would be with git.)
- annnnyway, after installing git for the first time in a couple years, i realized i super did not remember any of the git commands that i needed in order to set this stuff up lmao. 
- so! lots of searching and skimming and youtubing later, i scrabbled together (....wait is that a phrase that exists??) just enough of a refresher to do what i needed, and took some [notes](git-review.md) on what those things were! i actually ended up writing out a description of pretty much every single git command i entered throughout that whole process, which is a bunch more than i thought i would bother to write, lol. but it was definitely one of those things where the act of restating what i did really helped reinforce the practice, i think!
#### syncthing
- haha ok i am too tired now to say much about it but yeah i read up about #syncthing and figured out how to get it running to sync my obsidian folder between my laptop and phone, and tbh the whole thing was a BUNCH easier than i at first thought it was going to be! the hardest part was just like, how long it took me to realize that the "connection closed" messages i kept getting weren't errors, they were just my phone going to sleep, lmao.
- anyway it seems like a pretty dang cool solution!! looking forward to trying it out with some other stuff besides just my obsidian vaults later.

### want to learn next...
- very very curious about the Linking Your Thinking method (?), if "method" is in fact even what you call it, idk, anyhow I wanna check that out
- more about Obsidian and what i can do with it!!
- I was just *barely* starting to dig into reading about Javascript the other day, and I'd like to keep going with that! I've got a couple tiny little project ideas I wanna see if I can scape together!